feat(docs): Document slow update tree (#3416)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs/dev_docs/contracts/syntax/slow_updates_tree.md

Author: added

This initialization sets up the connection between the **`TokenBlacklist`** contract and a previously deployed SlowTree, allowing it to use the SlowMap interface to directly interact with the SlowTree. 

### Private Transfer Function Utilizing the Slow Updates Tree

In the private transfer function, the contract uses the **`SlowMap`** interface to check if a user is blacklisted:

#include_code transfer_private yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/main.nr rust

Here, the contract reads the roles of the sender and recipient from the SlowTree using the **`read_at`** function in the **`SlowMap`**interface. It checks if either party is blacklisted, and if so, the transaction does not go ahead.

## The SlowMap interface

This interface used by the TokenBlackList contract contains multiple functions for interacting with its associated SlowTree. You can find the interface [here](https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-packages/blob/master/yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/interfaces.nr).

For example, the `read_at()` function in the interface calls the `read_at()` private function in the SlowTree contract.

> ## A SlowTree.nr smart contract

Author: good point. removed this section and added a reference :)

### **`read_leaf_at`** function

`read_at()` calls the `read_leaf_at()` function which reads a specific leaf from the tree using a key.

#include_code read_leaf_at yarn-project/aztec-nr/slow-updates-tree/src/slow_map.nr rust

1. **Deriving the storage slot**: It first derives a storage slot specific to the key using a Pedersen hash. This derivation ensures that each key has a unique and consistent location in storage.
2. Leaf Retrieval: It then reads the leaf data from the storage slot. The leaf data includes `before`, `after`, and `next_change` timestamps, which are used in the `read_at()` function.

## How to integrate a slow updates tree

You can utilize this example to implement a slow updates tree in your own smart contract.

1. Copy the SlowTree.nr example, replace the constants with whatever you like, and deploy it to your sandbox
2. Copy the SlowMap interface for easy interaction with your deployed SlowTree
3. Import the SlowMap interface into your contract

#include_code interface yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/main.nr rust

5. Store a slow updates tree in both public and private storage

> #include_code slow_updates_storage yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/main.nr rust

Author: probably 😆 or maybe just change it haha. @rahul-kothari wdyt

> #include_code slow_updates_storage yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/main.nr rust

Author: will move docs:start to below this comment

---
title: Slow Updates Tree
---

> Slow Updates Tree is a data structure that allows for public data to be accessed in both private and public domains. Read the high level overview in the [concepts section](../../../concepts/foundation/communication/public_private_calls/slow_updates_tree.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slow Updates Tree is a data structure that allows for historic public data to be accessed in both private and public domains. Read the high level overview in the [concepts section](../../../concepts/foundation/communication/public_private_calls/slow_updates_tree.md).
```

> The Slow Updates Tree works by having a current tree and a pending tree, and replacing the current tree with the pending tree after an epoch has passed. Public functions can read directly from the current tree, and private functions can perform a membership proof that values are part of a commitment to the current state of the tree.

Reviewer: man this duplicating of things between two pages is not good :(

Author: it's standard!! literally all docs do this. this is good. it would not be good if it was all in one place

On this page you will learn:

1. About the SlowTree.nr smart contract
2. The components involved in using the Slow Updates Tree 
3. How you can integrate it into your own smart contract

> Scroll down to view [integration guide](./slow_updates_tree.md#how-to-integrate-a-slow-updates-tree) and [reference](./slow_updates_tree.md#reference).

Reviewer 2: These links dont go anywhere.

> Scroll down to view [integration guide](./slow_updates_tree.md#how-to-integrate-a-slow-updates-tree) and [reference](./slow_updates_tree.md#reference).

Reviewer 2: These links dont go anywhere.

> Scroll down to view [integration guide](./slow_updates_tree.md#how-to-integrate-a-slow-updates-tree) and [reference](./slow_updates_tree.md#reference).

Reviewer 2: These links dont go anywhere.

> # Exploring an example integration through a **`TokenBlacklist`** Smart Contract

Reviewer 2: Wdyt about putting this section at the end? Feels weird to start with an example integration. I think we should start with describing what it is, then explain how to use it, then end with an example in practice.

The `TokenBlacklist` contract is a token contract that does not allow blacklisted accounts to perform mints or transfers. To achieve this, it interacts with a Slow Updates Tree primarily through the `SlowMap` interface. There are four main components involved in this smart contract:

1. **TokenBlacklist.nr Contract:** This is the primary smart contract that utilizes the Slow Updates Tree for managing blacklisted addresses
2. **SlowMap Interface**: This interface is used within the `TokenBlacklist` contract to interact with the Slow Updates Tree. It provides methods for reading and updating values in the tree in both public and private contexts.
3. **SlowTree.nr Contract**: This is a smart contract that instantiates a slow updates tree and allows us to access and manipulate its contents.

> 4. **SlowMap type**: This is a type in the Azetc library that is utilized by the SlowTree contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **SlowMap type**: This is a type in the Aztec.nr library that is utilized by the SlowTree contract.
```

Reviewer: Install the cspell spelling extension - Jan has configured it to catch various typos

## TokenBlacklist Contract

You can find the full code for the TokenBlacklist smart contract [here](https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-packages/tree/master/yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract).

### Importing SlowMap

The contract first imports the **`SlowMap`** interface:

#include_code interface yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/main.nr rust

The **`SlowMap`** interface allows the contract to interact with its attached SlowTree. It abstracts these functions so they do not have to be implemented in the TokenBlacklist contract.

> ### Constructor and Initialization of the Slow Updates Tree

Reviewer: ah but you are not initializing the SU tree - you are initializing the token contract to tell which tree address to talk to. This heading is misleading and makes me think I have to build the tree

Reviewer 2: So in theory there can be many versions of the slow updates tree?

Reviewer 2: Could epoch length be configurable?

Reviewer 2: Could epoch length be configurable?

        INT_UAP
        INT_RA
        INT_UA
    end
    
    subgraph STC[SlowTree.nr]
        STC_RAP
        STC_UAP
        STC_RA
        STC_UA
    end
    
    subgraph SMT[SlowMap Type]
        Change{Epoch Over} -->|True| Current{Current}
        Change -->|False| Pending{Pending}
        Current --> Current1[Current Commitment 1]
        Current --> CurrentM[Current Commitment M]
        CurrentM --> Value1[Current Value 1]
        CurrentM --> Value2[Current Value 2]
        CurrentM --> ValueN[Current Value N]
        Pending --> PendingM[Pending Commitment 1]
        PendingM --> PValue1[Pending Value 1]
        PendingM --> PValue2[Pending Value 2]
        PendingM --> PValueN[Pending Value N]
    end

    style INT fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style STC fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
    style SMT fill:#fff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px
```

# How to integrate a slow updates tree

1. Copy the *SlowTree.nr* example and its dependencies, found [here](https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-packages/tree/master/yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/slow_tree_contract). Replace the constants with whatever you like and deploy it to your sandbox

> 2. Copy the *SlowMap interface* for easy interaction with your deployed SlowTree. Find it [here](https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-packages/blob/master/yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/interfaces.nr)

Reviewer: we are sometimes hyperlinking code and sometimes #include_code. Should we aim for consistency?

Author: hyperlinking is for the entire file to copy & paste. do you think i should replace it with include_code? its very long

3. Import this interface into your contract

#include_code interface yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/main.nr rust

5. Store a slow updates tree in both public and private storage

#include_code slow_updates_storage yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/main.nr rust

> 6. Store the SlowTree address in private storage as a FieldNote

Reviewer: 6 and 7 seem duplocates of 5 if I just read the descirption

#include_code constructor yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/main.nr rust

7. Store the SlowTree address in public storage and initialize an instance of SlowMap using this address

#include_code write_slow_update_public yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/main.nr rust

8. Now you can read and update from private functions:

#include_code get_and_update_private yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/main.nr rust

9. Or from public functions:

#include_code get_public yarn-project/noir-contracts/src/contracts/token_blacklist_contract/src/main.nr rust

View the [reference](slow_updates_tree.md#reference) for more information.

> ## Exploring an example integration through a **`TokenBlacklist`** Smart Contract

Reviewer: isn't this section an exact copy paste of the previous section? should we just remove it?
Your previous section just seems very very nice

Author: i think its worth it to keep it in. examples are always really good. it will help understand what the previous how-to section actually means
